Theme snake

students: Jiri Povolny and Marian Krotil.

User Manual

Introduction

Regarding the semestral work of subject APO we've chosen theme Snake the first inspiration example from the website https://cw.fel.cvut.cz/wiki/courses/b35apo/semestral/start. This project implemented in c / c++ represents video game Snake on MicroZed board. In the game Snake there player controls a line substitutes snake which grows in length if he eats food. The player loses when the snake runs into the screen border, or other snake, or itself.


Instalation

First of all you have to download semcode folder from our git repository: https://gitlab.fel.cvut.cz/povolji2/apo_snake/-/tree/master/

Then If you are connected to server postel you compile whole program by typing "make" into terminal because we use the pre prepared Makefile. Otherwise rewrite line 24 in Makefile to SSH_OPTIONS=-o 'ProxyJump=LOGIN@postel.felk.cvut.cz', LOGIN is your login name to CVUT. To run program on mz_apo board, type "./*.sh" into terminal. * is number from 1 to 7 depends on to which board you want to connect (sorted from left). If "./*.sh" doesn't work type into terminal "sudo chmod 755 *.sh" and try it again.

If nothing goes wrong board should turn on and display shows loading screen. Next instructions are described in control section.

Control

loading screen
To skip loading screen press "F". 

Menu
After loading menu will open. The menu is controlled by keyboard. To move up press "W", to move down press "S", to select button press "F", to quick quit press "X". Menu contains four buttons and is brighter when the button is selected. Button 1 (DEMO) starts Demo mode, button 2 (STANDARD) starts Standard mode, button 3 (OPTIONS) opens options and button 4 quits game. Only two buttons are shown on the display to get to the next one you have to go down.

Options
To access the options, select button 3 in menu. The control is the same as in the menu. To move up press "W", to move down press "S", to select button press "F", to return to the menu press "X". Options include five buttons with specific functionality. Button 1 (SPEED) sets value of the snake speed, as evidenced by the led line. Speed allows setting from 1 to 5 equals to time 1, 0.5, 0.33, 0.25, 0.2 in seconds. Button 2 (SIZE) sets size of the game tiles in pixels, values are 16, 20 and 32. The size of the tile will also affect the maximum width and height of the game on moves. Button 3 (COLOR 1) and button 4 (COLOR 2) set the color of the snakes. Button 3 to the first snake and button 4 to the other one. Button 5 (BACK) returns back to the menu.


Game modes
The game offers two modes, Demo and Standard. In both modes, snakes are spawned in the upper left and lower right corners of the game. At the first time food is generated in the middle of the game then randomly. The right side of the screen shows elapsed time and score of snakes according to the snake color. If both snakes are alive and moving LED is green. When the first snake eats food the LED on the left will turn blue otherwise on the right. If a snake dies its LED turns red and game over screen appears.

Demo mode
To access demo mode, select Demo in menu. Demo mode creates two snakes with simple AI and lets them play. Demo mode ends if any snake died or if "x" is pressed.


Standard mode
To access standard mode, select Standard in menu. Standard mode creates two snakes, one with AI and other controlled by player. Player controls the first snake by pressing keys, To move up press "W", to move down press "S", to move left press "A", to move right press "D". This mode ends if any snake died or if "x" is pressed.


Game over
This occurs when snake dies. The score of both snakes is drawn on the screen. To enter the menu, press "x".

Credits
Credits screen is showned when whole game has been ended. On the screen there are names of authors.
To skip credits press "x".














